Hi, Mystery Recapped here.
Today I’m going to explain a science fantasy
film called “Upside down.”
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care!
The movie starts as a voice narrates to us...
the rules of his planet which has a “dual gravity"
In such a world, two planets are so close
to each other that they block the sky.
The people who live on the upper planet seem
to be upside down for those on the lower planet.
The rules of gravity apply to both the residence
of both the planets.
Hence, they cannot visit the other planet
because the gravity of their own planet pulls
them down.
There are three fundamental laws.
One, all matters are pulled by only one gravity,
that is the gravity of their planet of origin.
Two, an object's weight can be offset using
matter from the opposite world, called the
inverse matter; and three, after a few hours
of contact with inverse matter, the contact
matter burns.
The upper world is called the up top, while
the lower is called down below.
The status of the two worlds are vastly different.
The up top is highly developed and rich, while
the down below is underdeveloped and poor.
The up top extracts cheap oil from down below
and sells them electricity at a very high
price.
They exploit down below’s resources and
prosper themselves.
The people are strictly prohibited to come
in contact with any person from the opposite planet.
The altercation of this law might be punishable
by death or imprisonment.
The only legal contact the people of two planets
can have is in the "TransWorld" company headquarters.
It is a skyscraper joining the two worlds.
People from the up top visit down below for
tourism and novelties like dancing in the ceiling
But people from down below do not have such
facilities.
The voice that narrates this is the voice
of a little child named Adam.
Adam is a resident of down below.
His parents died years ago in a transworld
factory explosion that destroyed half of the city
So he lives in an orphanage.
His only relative is his great aunt, Becky,
who he visits on the weekends.
Adam’s only joy in life is airplanes and
his aunt’s flying pancakes.
One day, when he is at Becky’s, she tells
him about her secret flying pancakes recipe.
Her secret flying pancakes recipe uses pollen
from pink bees
The pink bees collect their pollen from both
worlds which can only be found in the sage mountain.
She also shows him a book that writes of the
secrets of pink bees, and promises to hand
it down to Adam when he grows up.
One day, Becky sends Adam to collect the pollen
from the mountain.
He narrates that the day changes his life
forever.
He climbs higher than he has ever climbed
and reaches the top.
From there, he clearly sees the uptop.
Adam has a paper airplane in his hand that
he throws to the uptop.
It flies and lands on the ground there.
A beautiful girl finds it.
Adam looks up at her, they both smile, and
the rest is history.
Cut to a few years later, Adam has now grown
into a handsome teenager.
He and the girl, Eden, have been friends ever
since.
They have been meeting at the same place every
day since the last time.
That day too, Adam waits for Eden at the top
of the mountain.
They meet, and Adam uses the second law of
gravity to bring Eden down to him.
He ties a top to her body and drags her down.
The two run around the woods with Adam holding
Eden in place, but suddenly, they hear gunshots.
They hurry back to the hilltop.
As Adam is sending Eden back to up top, the
guards shoot him.
The rope slips from his hands and Eden hits
her head on the ground on uptop.
He watches her lying motionless on the ground
as blood oozes from her head.
Meanwhile, the guards take Adam, separate
him from Becky and imprison him.
They also burn down Becky’s house.
Cut to ten years later.
Adam is now a young adult working in a mechanics
shop with his boss, Albert.
He is experimenting on bee pollen to make
an anti gravity formula for anti aging face cream.
However, the formula only works for a few
seconds.
The equipment required to develop the formula
further is only available up top.
One day at work, he is surprised to see Eden
on TV.
He hasn't seen her since the incident.
It turns out that she works in transworld.
Adam is over the moon to see her alive.
He then starts working at transworld, because
they can provide him with resources needed
to complete the formula of the face cream.
Adam also plans to reunite with his childhood
love there.
On his first day at work in the transworld,
Adam is fascinated by the exclusive workplace.
The skyscraper has several floors.
The floors with a plus symbol are for the
employees uptop while the ones with a minus
are for employees from down below.
Adam works in floor zero, which is the middle
floor and has employees from both planets.
The head of the establishment informs him
about the rules of the workplace.
According to him, Adam, being from down below
is fortunate to have gotten a prestigious
job at transworld.
Lastly, he informs Adam that if he steals
any kind of inverse matter from up top, he
will be fired and jailed.
Another worker provides Adam with an inverse
matter, and advises him to keep it in the
refrigerator so it doesn’t burn.
After work, Adam goes back to Albert's, who
is mad at him for going to transworld...claiming
that people from up top are evil.
Albert is scared that Adam might get himself
killed trying to work for transworld.
But after a little convincing from Adam, he
agrees to help him.
Meanwhile, Eden is in a self-help group where
we get to know that she has lost all her memory
before the accident.
She doesn’t remember Adam at all.
One day at work, Adam asks his colleague from
up top named Bob...to link him with Eden.
Bob agrees.
That night, Adam, Albert, and their friend
Pablo are together.
Pablo questions Adam if all this is really
worth it.
He fears that Eden would no longer want to
associate with Adam.
But Adam insists that it is worth it.
The following day at work, he provides Bob
with rare stamps from down below as a gift.
He starts working really hard on his face
cream.
After a few days, he presents the cream to
the board from up top.
He applies it to a dog’s face after which
its face is lifted.
The board is impressed, and gives Adam more
time to make the effect of the cream last longer.
Adam works extra hours that day.
After the office is empty, he climbs on a
tool and calls the up top receptionist from
Bob’s phone.
He then makes an appointment to meet Eden
as Bob.
Later at Albert’s shop, they make Adam a
heavy suit made out of inverse matter to help
him walk on up top.
However, because of the third rule of gravity,
the suit will start to burn after he has been
on up top for a while.
The following day, Adam wears the suit in
a private room at work, and disguises himself
as an up top employee.
As soon as he wears the suit and the shoes,
their weight offsets the weight of his body,
making him able to walk on the ceiling.
He then quickly rushes to the floor Eden works
in.
He is delighted to see her, but she doesn’t
recognize him.
Her colleague informs Adam of Eden’s amnesia.
Adam makes an excuse of him coming to see
Eden, because his face cream might interest her.
He tries telling things from his childhood
in hopes of making her remember him, but she
just laughs.
Then, his suit starts to burn.
Adam rushes to the bathroom., and tries to
reduce the pain with water.
When he pees, it drops to the ceiling; the
pee goes into the smoke detector.
Just then, an alarm goes off, and Adam is
chased by officials, but manages to run away.
Later that night, Pablo and Albert apply ointment
to his burns.
Pablo is still skeptical of Eden.
The next day at work, an alarm goes off.
The board then announces the name of a few
employees to be fired.
Bob’s name is also in the list.
After everyone leaves, Bob and Adam have a
chat.
Adam feels sorry for Bob.
Before leaving, Bob gives him a box with his
Key card and ID, so that Adam can exit the
transworld building to enter the up top area
if he wants to.
Adam is alone, when he receives a call on
Bob’s phone.
It is Eden.
She is surprised that Adam didn’t come back
after leaving the previous day, and wants
to meet him.
Adam is over the moon, and agrees to meet
her in a restaurant.
He goes to a private room, and wears the suit
again to disguise as an up top employee.
Then, using Bob’s card, he exits the transworld
building, and enters the real up top for the
first time.
As he looks around, he is amazed.
Then he goes to see Eden in the restaurant.
Adam tries to make her remember him which
makes Eden uncomfortable.
She is about to leave, but Adam convinces
her to stay.
They chat for a while after which, Adam’s
shoes start to burn.
He has to get back to down below as fast as
he can.
The two come out of the restaurant and plan
another date the next day.
Adam’s shoe lights on fire, so he hurries
to a nearby sea and jumps on it.
As soon as his shoes fall off, he is dropped
onto down below and lands on another sea.
Adam finally reaches home but has a cold.
That night, Eden dreams of Adam and her.
She is starting to gain her memory back.
The following day at work, Adam’s face cream’s
formula is complete.
He presents it to the board members in an
auditorium.
An old woman sits beside Adam.
He applies the cream to her face and it is
immediately lifted.
The board members clap for him.
Just then, Eden enters the Auditorium.
She notices Adam and is surprised to see that
he is from down below.
She calls him Bob in front of everyone, but
Adam tells her she might be mistaken and that
his name is Adam.
Confused, Eden runs away from there.
After the meeting is over, Adam rushes to
the up top in his suit.
He goes running, searching for Eden.
However, she exits the building before Adam
can catch her.
Adam uses Bob’s card but it doesn’t work
this time as Bob has been fired.
Seeing that his cover is blown, Adam runs
away as the guard chases him.
He manages to escape but doesn't have a way
to go back down below.
Unable to find Eden, he goes to Bob’s house
to ask for help.
Bob is surprised but welcomes him wholeheartedly.
Adam sits on his ceiling, when Bob hands him
a suit he designed to bring Adam down.
This suit is designed in such a way that it
will not get burnt, even after long contact
with inverse matters.
Then, Adam shows him the magic of pink pollen.
He mixes liquid from both the planets and
creates a floating substance that resists
the gravity of both the planets.
Bob is scared that the transworld has the
formula and will use it to their profit.
But Adam reveals that he never told the people
from transworld about the secret ingredient,
the pink pollen.
The company cannot manufacture the face lifting
cream without him.
Wearing Bob’s suit, Adam goes back to the
restaurant he met Eden in.
He goes to talk to her and surprisingly, she
is glad to see him.
She tells him that she is starting to remember
bits and pieces of their childhood together.
The two finally kiss.
However, the border police arrive there and
the two have to separate.
Adam runs away and somehow gets back down
below.
The police are still searching for him.
His escape has made the headlines.
Back down, he climbs up the sage mountain
and waits for Eden to come.
She finally arrives.
The two float mid air and kiss.
The two are now in up top together when a
group of soldiers come looking for them.
The two try to run away but at the end, Adam
falls to down below, while Eden is arrested
by the guards.
Adam lands on a tree and is saved from the
impact because of the inverse matter suit.
As Adam walks on the streets of down below,
he is kidnapped by two men.
They tell him that they are willing to drop
the charges against Eden, if Adam gives them
the formula of the face cream.
He is then thrown out of the car.
Adam now believes that he will never see Eden
again and goes back to his normal life.
Meanwhile, up top, Bob experiments with the
formula Adam had shown him, and finds out
that they can adverse the effect of gravity
with it; so the people from up top can walk
on down below.
The following day, Eden visits Bob asking
him for help.
Later that day, Adam is in Albert’s shop
when suddenly, Bob arrives there.
Adam is surprised and asks him how it is possible.
Bob can actually float in air using Adam’s
formula.
He shows him he can stay Down without the
help of the opposite-matter accoutrements.
He has perfected Adam’s formula, so that
any matter can counter-effect the gravity
of either world.
Bob also tells him he had purchased the beauty
cream patent before TransWorld could, then
tells Adam he has a "date".
Soon, Eden finds him in the Down World, and
tells him she’s pregnant with his baby,
resulting in her ability to stay free in both
worlds.
Many years later, towering skyscrapers are
seen on both sides, showing that both sides
have become prosperous, as well as children
from both sides interacting through basketball.
Subscribe for more videos like this, turn
on notifications, and leave a like to help
the channel out.
Thank you for watching.